#summary Obtaining optimal performance.
#labels Featured,Documentation-User

=Introduction=
This page contains a simple listing of methods to obtain the best performance out of the library.

Generally the default settings should give a good balance between speed and accuracy for most applications.

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

=Continuous Collision Detection (CCD)=
Continuous collision detection is a very computationally expensive process and should only be used if needed.
  * Disable CCD completely using the Settings class and !ContinuousDetection.NONE
  * Enable CCD for bullets only.  You must flag which Bodies will need to be detected for tunneling by using the Body.setBullet(boolean) method.
  * Configure the current !ConservativeAdvancement algorithm via the setMaxIterations(int) method.  The minimum is 5 with the default being 30.
  * Configure the current !ConservativeAdvancement algorithm via the setDistanceEpsilon(double) method. The minimum is 0.0 and the default is 1E-6.  The closer the value is to zero determines how accurate and how slow the algorithm will be.
  * Keep the number of bullet Bodies to a minimum.

=Enable Multithreading=
Simple multithreading has been implemented inside the World class to handle the ideal cases.  You can enable this setting via the Settings.setMultithreadingEnabled(boolean) method.

Because when using this as your event listeners will need to be thread safe.

In addition you can configure how the load is split via the Settings.setLoadFactor(int).  This value must be a multiple of 2.

=Auto Sleeping=
Auto sleeping is enabled by default, leave this setting on if at all possible.

In addition to leaving this setting enabled:
  * Increase the sleep velocity and sleep angular velocity values to put Bodies to sleep faster via the Settings.setSleepVelocity(double) and Settings.setSleepAngularVelocity(double) methods.
  * Decrease the time required for Bodies to be stationary before being put to sleep using the Settings.setSleepTime(double) method.

=World Updates=
Using the World.update(double) method forces that the World only update at a given frequency defined in the Settings singleton.  You can decrease this value to a minimum of 30, the default is 60, to have the entire engine update less often, leaving more time for your application to perform other tasks.

=Collision Detection=
Implement the !CollisionListener and !ContactListener interfaces to catch collisions/contacts that you don't want/need processed.  This will save time in the pipline.

If your World is totally enclosed or its unlikely that Bodies will leave the Bounds, set the Bounds on the World object to null.  This will disable Bounds checking.

In general, for the !TestBed the SAT algorithm performs faster than GJK.

If you are using GJK you can configure a number of properties to improve performance sacrificing accuracy:
  * Decrease the maximum number of iterations that GJK will perform.  This is only really a problem when Circles are being used.  The default is 100 and the minimum is 5.  In practice I have rarely seen it hit double digits.
  * Increase the distance epsilon.  This controls how GJK knows when to stop iterating.  Again this is really only a problem if Circles are being used.  The default value is 1E-8.  Increasing this value will decrease the accuracy of the algorithm.

These GJK tips may help you if you are using CCD or raycasting as well since GJK is used by those processes.

In addition, GJK uses EPA to obtain a penetration vector and depth.  EPA uses a similar concept as GJK and has the same configuration values.  Use the same tips above to configure EPA as well.

=Collision Resolution=
The collision resolution system has a number of properties to configure to get the right balance of speed and accuracy for your application.
  * Decrease the number of velocity or position solving iterations using the Settings.setPositionConstraintSolverIterations(int) and Settings.setVelocityConstraintSolverIterations(int).  The minimum value is 5 with a default of 10 for both settings.
  * Implement a new !CoefficientMixer than the default.  The default performs a Math.sqrt() in the friction mixing method.  Instead, for example, you could use an averaging method.

=Raycasting=
Raycasting, like CCD, can be very computationally expensive.  In general try to raycast against specific Bodies instead of the entire World.

In addition to this use the all, maxLength, and ignoreSensors parameters to decrease the number of Body/Shapes that must be checked.

Implement the !RaycastListener to stop raycasting when you have found the result you are looking for.

=Bodies=
Avoid over use of the Body.getJoinedBodies(), Body.getJoints(), Body.getInContactBodies(), and Body.getContacts() methods since all of these methods create new lists for every invocation to return the information.

Avoid excessive calls to the Body.setMass methods as these are expensive.  If you need to toggle the Mass type between a special type and the normal type use the Body.setMassType(type) method instead since this method does not recompute the Mass.

Increase the linear and angular damping of your Bodies to increase the rate at which they are automatically put to sleep.

Apply filters to Bodies to avoid unnecessary collision detection/resolution steps.

If you only want to know when a collision happens, set the !BodyFixture to be a sensor.